---
layout: post
title:  "And now for phase 2!"
date:   2014-09-17
categories: culture
---

When Last We Met Our Hero...
------------------------

So. I've finally passed phase 1 everyone. This is fantastic news. Things are mostly the same here except, of course, things are harder. We're starting to put things in actual web pages now. Crazy, right? We're using a framework, Sinatra (which is like a baby version of Rails). But real talk: HTTP routing is complicated. If you didn't follow any of that, that's okay. I'm still not following it either. I hope that's because it's only day 2 (of phase 2), and most people I talk to says learning routing is probably the hardest part of DBC. 

What else? Yoga is on Mondays/Wednesdays now (and optional, but really: why wouldn't I do yoga???). My new cohort is cool. Cohorts are students that come in at the same time and go through the three phases (3 weeks each) of DBC together. If you repeat, you switch cohorts. I used to be part of the Great Horned Owls, but now I'm a member of the Mud Turtles. This may sound like a demotion, but the people, for the most part, are WAY more awesome AND we're now evenly divided between men and women which I'm pretty sure has never happened before in the history of DBC!

All the cohorts have their own call-- the Red Spotted Newts from a few cohorts back referenced Monty Python (look it up), and the Owls referenced Missy Elliot's lyrics (Hootie Hoo! Run for cover...), but I am proud to say I came up with the Mud Turtles' call. So I will leave you with this:

'Coders in a bash shell, TURTLE POWER!'

(It may be one of the nerdiest things I've ever done, but... *brushes shoulders off*)