---
layout: post
title:  "The Post Month 1 Recap"
date:   2014-08-28
categories: culture
---

When Last We Met Our Hero...
------------------------

It was week 1 of phase 1 of Dev Bootcamp! After 9 weeks of grueling self-study she was finally in New York City studying in person. Spirits were high!

The Pledge
========

Things were cool back in week 1, before we got into object-oriented design, before databases and Active Record. Things were hard, and they got harder, but at some point (maybe on Sudoku day, maybe on Active Record Jr. day), I started to withdraw. For whatever reason (and I have a few theories) my confidence plummeted, and I started acting as if everything was okay when it really wasn't. This, of course, turned into a vicious cycle of lower confidence, more withdrawal, and less learning. DBC makes a point of wanting you to constantly be uncomfortable, but also acknowledge if that discomfort turns to drowning. I was drowning, but I didn't ask for help.

You can probably see where this is going. A week ago today I sat down after yoga to take my final assessment for phase 1, and it did not go well. It could partially have been a self-fulfilling prophecy, my own gender discrimination (yes, I'm sexist, too), that I really wasn't feeling well, that I panicked, or maybe a combination of all of the above, but whatever it was: I choked. And while I knew the material, I didn't really KNOW the material. I hadn't owned it, yet. 

The Turn
======

The Bad News: I failed. 

DBC doesn't call it that, of course, but it still felt like it. I was asked to repeat phase 1. Friday was terrible, and Monday might have been worse (seeing your friends go on to new material and you're with brand new people who all know each other starting back at "GO" and not having collected $200). I said I'd be okay with it, and when it came down to it, I realized there was no way I could have really prepared myself to be okay with it. 


The Prestige
========

I learned more about myself in the weekend between Phase 1, Take 1 and Phase 1, Take 2 and the past few days than I have in awhile. I learned how hard it is for me to advocate for myself. I learned that there were some people in my cohort(class) that were really intimidating me, and that was hard to admit. I learned that I had started doubting myself even before things got rough, and I hadn't even noticed. 

I also learned how to ask for and accept help. I also learned that I knew the material better than I thought, but I wasn't breaking problems down enough. I also learned what I didn't learn in the first three weeks, and I'm working on remedying that now. 

My new cohort is a much better environment for me, and my teachers are answering my questions (mostly because I'm actually asking them). The feedback I gave to the school has really been implemented. This is all the Good News. 

The Other Bad News
=============

Yeah, you guessed it-- I won't be back on October 4 anymore :( . Not only that, I won't be back in time to do the dance workshop I signed up for with Sonya Tayeh. And also... there was a haircut... that went about 2 inches shorter than expected... it's shoulder length. It was(still is) traumatic. 

BUT things are way better this time around. I'm learning a lot more, and getting a lot more help, and working with people who are as a group more awesome than the group I was in last time. I've realized that more than anything I get intimidated even when I know the material, and that intimidation is paralyzing. It's hard to overcome, but I'm working on it. Also, I get to see more friends in NYC now :) 

