---
layout: post
title:  "The Post Week 1 Recap"
date:   2014-08-09
categories: culture
---

Phase 1: Week 1
---------------

Since a bunch of my friends are awesome and want to know how it's going, I thought I'd send this to all of you instead of replying. Efficiency is the name of the game right now. 

The Morning
===========

My day starts at 5:30-5:45 AM (depending on whether I hit snooze... which I usually do). I take about half an hour to get ready and am out the door by 6:15 (eating breakfast in the car) to get on the 6:32 express train from New Haven to Grand Central. I usually manage to get about a half hour of sleep on the train around reviewing stuff for the day. I get to NYC around 8:15 and hop on the 4/5/6 down to Wall Street. My school is two blocks from the Stock Exchange. I usually stop for coffee at the Dunkin' Donuts in our building before going up to class. We're supposed to be there at 8:45 but my usual arrival time is 8:50 because of the train schedule stuff. 

The School Day/Week
===================

The day starts with a lecture or yoga, depending on the day of the week, about an hour long. Then it's coding for two and a half hours in assigned pairs until lunch at 12:30. Lunch goes until 2-- 1.5 hours sounds good, but you're usually scarfing in order to A) finish your work from the morning, or B) catching a few Zzs in the nap room (just a room with the lights off that you grab a corner in to curl up and pass out on the hard floor). After lunch there's a school-wide meeting. There are announcements and stuff, and usually a terrible joke that gets a slow clap. We then go right back into coding, or maybe another brief lecture and then coding straight until 6. The gong rings (tolls?), except nobody leaves at 6. If anything, you reevaluate with your partner and see how long you think you both need to stay (but the building closes at 2 AM). There are special things scattered throughout the week-- we have an Engineering Empathy lecture once a week, and Wednesdays are days you can chose your own partner or work by yourself. Fridays we have check-ins as small groups and the whole school. There's meditation at 12 on 3 days a week, too, and psychologist counselor to talk to, and two career counselors you can see at any time. 

There is no email. There is no Facebook. There are no phones. Sometimes people check them at lunch, but for the most part, we forget such things exist. I'm a hard person to get ahold of, and I'm sorry. 

The Nights
==========

So far, I'm the slacker in the group (my cohort already has a bad reputation for working too hard in week 1 and being too competitive though, so hopefully that will change) that only stays until 8 at the latest so I can get the 8:30 train home (during which I read, watch lectures, or code), get home by 10:45 and be in bed by 11:30. Wash, rinse, repeat. On Thursday evenings there are talks, and they get us pizza and beer (we have a tap in the common room) if we stay for it. On Friday there's karaoke, but it started at 9 and I was too tired to go last night.

The People
==========

Everyone here (with a very few exceptions) is totally awesome. You're expected to struggle, but everyone is always available to ask questions and very friendly. There's a guy in my cohort with the same birthday as me... which was awesome until I asked him if he was born in 1989, figuring he was a bit younger than me. HE WAS BORN IN 1991. It's okay. There'a also a guy who's five years older than me. I'm the median age. There are 3 girls in my cohort (including me), nine guys. 


And as for me?
==============

I'm already behind on work-- the good news is there's no shame in repeating a phase (it's a 3-week section of the 9-week course, and I'd say about a third of students repeat either phases 1 or 2), but obviously I want to get back to DC ASAP, so I'm working as hard as I can. It's definitely as intense as advertised in most ways. We have our first mock assessments on Monday/Tuesday so I'll have a better idea then on where I stand. I'm thinking commuting from New Haven will be okay for phases 1 and 2 and then for phase 3 I'll have to stay in NYC. Now that I've adjusted to life here (sort of... kind of... well, not really, but it's something), I'm hoping to FINALLY see friends. Maybe after I pass phase 1 I'll be able to come to DC for a weekend, but it's a long trip and weekends require A LOT of work. 

My Mom is saving my butt big time by driving me to and from the train station and helping me with grocery shopping and packing lunches-- I'm not lazy, I'm just working THAT much. In fact, I'd write more details, but I have to get back to work! Hope all is well where you're at, folks. Talk soon :)

