---
layout: post
title: The Myth of the Female Prodigy
date:   2015-02-25
categories: Tech
---

And How It's Hurting Women In Tech
---------------------------------------
As a woman in both tech and performing arts, I think a lot about the representations of women in both fields. When we were dealing with the fallout from [Ubisoft deciding not to make female characters available in multiplayer for Assassin's Creed Unity](http://kotaku.com/ubisoft-cut-plans-for-female-assassins-in-unity-1589278349), I would painstakingly explain to anyone who asked, and many who didn't, why video game representations are a chicken and egg scenario. Do women not play video games because they don't like video games or because they don't see themselves represented in video games? The same can be said of a black person preferring to play a sports game as opposed to a fantasy RPG. For me, it was a very tangible experience seeing Sailor Jupiter, a girl who was brunette and had a ponytail just like me. For a girl who didn't like pink and wasn't blonde, there were few stories and representations of superheroes that I could relate to. The fact is that those of us who are "minorities" that play video games where we're not represented (or read comics or whatever), we do that *in spite of* the differences and not because of them, as most white males do.

This brings me back to the point of this post. There *are* representations of females in tech. They're few and far between, but they're there. **However**, where we do find them, they are incredibly gifted prodigies. The first that comes to mind for me is Felicity Smoak from *Arrow*, and Maggie Masden from *Transformers*. These girls are both incredibly hot **AND** incredibly gifted hackers. And it's not just Hollywood that says so, it's [also](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Felicity_Smoak) [cannon](http://tfwiki.net/wiki/Maggie_Madsen). 

Unfortunately, not all women can be prodigious hackers, or blond (why are they always blond?!). When women are few and far between in tech, are hiring managers waiting and hoping they'll find such a prodigy as opposed to investing in a woman who's a decent coder and hard worker? There are representations of average male coders and prodigious male coders in the news and media all the time. So when a hiring manager is confronted with two candidates, an above average male coder and an average female coder, who is he going to pick? While he may want more women on his team, does he want to invest the time and money in bringing the average coder up to speed? Or would he rather wait until a supremely gifted woman comes along? This isn't explicit in his mind by any means. It's just that there's no affirmative action requirement in your average job placement. But when women often have to overcome a lot more to be strong candidates in the tech field and have the same support, the myth of the female prodigy can definitely hurt them.

I understand that what I'm saying is one of those subtle, implicit forms of sexism that would be near impossible to study. But [we know](http://www.attn.com/stories/1003/women-leaving-tech-sexism) that there is still a serious sexixm problem in the tech world, and, to quote the linked attn: article, "the attitudes holding [women] back [are] far more subtle and therefore far harder to challenge on any grand scale". 